Update Kubeflow Installation with Standalone Mode (#3724)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/started/installing-kubeflow.md

+++

This pages describes how to install Kubeflow standalone components or Kubeflow Platform using package
distributions or raw manifests. Check [the introduction guide](/docs/started/introduction) to

> understand what are Kubeflow standalone components and what is Kubeflow Platform.

Author: I think, we clearly separate Kubeflow Standalone Components and Kubeflow Platform to be consistent with introduction page. Any thoughts @thesuperzapper @kubeflow/kubeflow-steering-committee @juliusvonkohout ?

> ## Installing Kubeflow

Author: I just tried to be consistent with other components docs that we refactored:
- Installing Training Operator: https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training/installation/#installing-training-operator
- Installing Katib: https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/katib/installation/#installing-katib

@StefanoFioravanzo @hbelmiro WDYT ?

> ## Installing Kubeflow

Reviewer: Agree on being consistent with other installation guides. May be subjective but I generally don't like questions in titles. Anyways, whatever the choice, consistency across guides and components is paramount

You can install Kubeflow components using one of these methods:

- [**Install Kubeflow Components Standalone**](#install-kubeflow-components-standalone)
- [**Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions**](#install-kubeflow-platform-from-packaged-distributions)

> - [**Install Kubeflow Platform from Raw Manifests**](#install-kubeflow-platform-from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

Author: Let's followup in this comment: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3724#discussion_r1599787201

> ### Install Kubeflow Components Standalone

Author: The intention to make it smaller to make them sub-headers on the right side.
Do you think we should not do that ?
Also, as I mentioned above: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3724#discussion_r1599758845, we want to link the installation headers with introduction page.
<img width="374" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-14 at 11 13 00" src="https://github.com/kubeflow/website/assets/31112157/94554ec2-11aa-459e-9279-0c31ba9e167e">

Kubeflow components can be deployed as standalone applications. You can integrate those components
to your existing AI/ML platform. This is the easiest method to get started with Kubeflow ecosystem

> since those components usually don't require additional management tools used in Kubeflow Platform.

Author: I added this:
```
Some components in the [Kubeflow ecosystem](/docs/started/architecture/#conceptual-overview) may be
deployed as standalone services, without the need to install the full platform. You might integrate
these services as part of your existing AI/ML platform or use them independently.
```

Regarding this comment:

>We should also not suggest that this is "easier" because that is not necessarily the case, and will depend on the user and their use-case.

@james-jwu and @jbottum proposed to add this since typical Kubeflow users won't see any problems with installing Kubeflow components standalone, and unlikely will get blocked during installation phase. That will help them to explore Kubeflow ecosystem and see the value of individual components. Even with Kubeflow Pipelines @james-jwu told us that users don't see any problems with installing this standalone.

 cc @kubeflow/kubeflow-steering-committee @kubeflow/wg-pipeline-leads

> since those components usually don't require additional management tools used in Kubeflow Platform.

Author: Renamed it to `an easier method`. 
@jbottum This link should work in preview mode.

This table points to the installation guide for every Kubeflow component, the GitHub repository,
and corresponding [stage of ML lifecycle](/docs/started/architecture/#kubeflow-components-in-the-ml-lifecycle)

> for every Kubeflow component.

Author: Nice suggestion. Does it look good ?

The following table lists Kubeflow components that may be deployed in a standalone mode. It also lists their associated GitHub repository, and corresponding [ML lifecycle stage](https://file+.vscode-resource.vscode-cdn.net/docs/started/architecture/#kubeflow-components-in-the-ml-lifecycle).

> <div class="table-responsive distributions-table">

Author: What is the user value to order them by popularity and how are we going to track the components popularity in the future ?
E.g. from my point of view, ML Lifecycle makes more sense since order will always be the same, and we can link this table with Kubeflow ML Lifecycle: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3728.
If we don't like that, we can order them alphabetically. 
@thesuperzapper @kubeflow/kubeflow-steering-committee @juliusvonkohout Thoughts ?

> <div class="table-responsive distributions-table">

Reviewer 2: Lifecycle or alphabetically is low maintenance

> <div class="table-responsive distributions-table">

Reviewer: Agree on alphabetical ordering - politically correct and low maintenance.

  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Component</th>
        <th>Source Code</th>

>         <th>Stage of ML Lifecycle</th>

Author: @thesuperzapper Sure, I can move it to 2nd columns.

Why you don't like ML lifecycle Stage ? We heard many times from Cloud Native community and CNCF WG AI that it is important to explain value of Kubeflow Components in ML Lifecycle. cc @ronaldpetty @AdminTurnedDevOps @zanetworker @raravena80

          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          All-Reduce Model Training
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
         <a href="/docs/components/model-registry/installation/#installing-model-registry">
            Kubeflow Model Registry
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/model-registry">
            <code>kubeflow/model-registry</code>
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Registry
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
         <a href="https://kserve.github.io/website/master/admin/serverless/serverless">
            KServe
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kserve/kserve">
            <code>kserve/kserve</code>
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Serving
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="docs/components/pipelines/v2/installation/quickstart/">
            Kubeflow Pipelines
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines">
            <code>kubeflow/pipelines</code>
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>

>           ML Workflows and Schedulers

Author: Nice catch!

        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

**Note**. Currently, Kubeflow Notebooks can't be deployed as a standalone application, but Notebooks

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Author: As we discussed before with @kubeflow/kubeflow-steering-committee, this should be explained in the installation guide of individual Kubeflow components. Since we can't list all unavailable features in the installation section.

Pipelines, Notebooks can add those limitations in [the installation guides](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/katib/installation/#installing-katib). It can introduce sub-section in the component installation guide: `Standalone Pipelines Limitations`. @StefanoFioravanzo @hbelmiro Any feedback ?

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Reviewer: Yes, we need to push this info down to the component's doc. @thesuperzapper  we can work together on enhancing the Notebooks docs, following recent approaches in Training Operator, Katib, Pipelines, Model Registry. You can see some examples here:

- https://github.com/kubeflow/training-operator/issues/1998
- https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/issues/2314
- https://github.com/kubeflow/website/issues/3716

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Reviewer 3: In the table, under the component links, I was only able to get the KServe and Spark Operator links to work.   The rest are broken.

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Reviewer 4: @andreyvelich we can mark this one as "resolved".

We can explain that Notebooks is only available in "Kubeflow Platform" under the `## Kubeflow Platform` heading as proposed in https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3724/files#r1608938065

> 

Author: @thesuperzapper Do you want to move Raw Manifest + Packaged Distribution installation under Kubeflow Platform sub-section ? 
We don't need to explain what is Kubeflow Platform since it is already here: https://deploy-preview-3724--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform-.

> 

Reviewer 4: @andreyvelich we can mark this one as resolved, since we already did this in another commit.

However, we should still discuss what the "intro" text for this heading is, see https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3724/files#r1608938065

> ### Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions

Reviewer 2: I think that is on purpose to have it streamlined

```
[Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions](https://deploy-preview-3724--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/started/installing-kubeflow/#install-kubeflow-platform-from-packaged-distributions)
[Install Kubeflow Platform from Raw Manifests](https://deploy-preview-3724--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/started/installing-kubeflow/#install-kubeflow-platform-from-raw-manifests)
```

> ### Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions

Author: That's right @juliusvonkohout.
We are trying to explain that these installations are for Kubeflow Platform as mentioned here: https://deploy-preview-3724--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform-

+++

This page describes how to install Kubeflow standalone components or Kubeflow Platform using package

> distributions or raw manifests.

Reviewer 3: this might be rewritten or removed

Author: @jbottum Any suggestion how do you think we should re-write it ? I just tried to be consistent with other installation page that we updated with @StefanoFioravanzo and @hbelmiro. E.g. [Training Operator](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/training/installation/) or [Katib](https://www.kubeflow.org/docs/components/katib/installation/).

> Read [the introduction guide](/docs/started/introduction) to

Reviewer 3: this link did not work for me

Author: It should work in preview mode.

understand what are Kubeflow standalone components and what is Kubeflow Platform.

## Installing Kubeflow

You can install Kubeflow using one of these methods:

- [**Install Kubeflow Components Standalone**](#install-kubeflow-components-standalone)
- [**Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions**](#install-kubeflow-platform-from-packaged-distributions)
- [**Install Kubeflow Platform from Raw Manifests**](#install-kubeflow-platform-from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

### Install Kubeflow Components Standalone

Some components in the [Kubeflow ecosystem](/docs/started/architecture/#conceptual-overview) may be
deployed as standalone services, without the need to install the full platform. You might integrate
these services as part of your existing AI/ML platform or use them independently.

> This is the easiest method to get started with Kubeflow ecosystem since those components usually

Reviewer 3: perhaps change "easiest" to "a simple" or "an easier" method.    My point - is deploying a standalone component easier (for a user) than using vendor's SaaS offer ? maybe, maybe not.   Note - There might be a better word than simple .

          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#installation">
            Kubeflow Spark Operator
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Data Preparation
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator">
            <code>kubeflow/spark-operator</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="/docs/components/training/installation/#installing-training-operator">
            Kubeflow Training Operator
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Training and Fine-Tuning
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/training-operator">
            <code>kubeflow/training-operator</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

**Note**. Currently, Kubeflow Notebooks can't be deployed as a standalone application, but Notebooks
WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

### Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions

Packaged distributions are maintained by various organizations and typically aim to provide

> a simplified installation and management experience for **Kubeflow Platform**. Some distributions

Reviewer 3: suggested change...for your ***Kubeflow Platform***

+++

This guide describes how to install Kubeflow standalone components or Kubeflow Platform using package
distributions or raw manifests.

Read [the introduction guide](/docs/started/introduction) to learn more about Kubeflow, Kubeflow
standalone components and Kubeflow Platform.

## Installing Methods

You can install Kubeflow using one of these methods:

- [**Kubeflow Components Standalone**](#kubeflow-components-standalone)
- [**Kubeflow Platform**](#kubeflow-platform)

> ### Kubeflow Components Standalone

Author: In that case, I will rename the introduction section to: `What are Standalone Kubeflow Components`

We should make it H3, so these headers will be under Installation Methods:

<img width="368" alt="Screenshot 2024-05-22 at 22 47 14" src="https://github.com/kubeflow/website/assets/31112157/687f0cbc-618a-4924-9ed7-5d7bcd1860e9">

> ### Kubeflow Components Standalone

Reviewer 4: @andreyvelich I think the indentation on the sidebar is much less important than the readability of the page.

Using H3 is already very small, and it forces us to use H4 for the "Packaged Distributions" and "Raw Manifests" headings, which is way to small.

Take a look and see what you think.

            Kubeflow Pipelines
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          ML Workflows and Schedules
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines">
            <code>kubeflow/pipelines</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#installation">
            Kubeflow Spark Operator
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Data Preparation
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator">
            <code>kubeflow/spark-operator</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="/docs/components/training/installation/#installing-training-operator">
            Kubeflow Training Operator
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Training and Fine-Tuning
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/training-operator">
            <code>kubeflow/training-operator</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

### Kubeflow Platform

> You can use one of the following methods to install Kubeflow Platform to get full suite of Kubeflow
> components bundled together with additional integration and management tools.

Reviewer 4: We can link people to the introduction `"What is Kubeflow Platform?"` section, to help them understand the differences:

```suggestion
You can use one of the following methods to install Kubeflow Platform.

When deployed as a platform, Kubeflow provides a comprehensive set of tools for the entire ML lifecycle.
For more information about the platform, please see this [introduction](/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform).
```

Author: I can modify this as follows:
```
You can use one of the following methods to install [Kubeflow Platform](/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform)
to get full suite of standalone Kubeflow components bundled together with additional tools.
```

We already linked the introduction page at the beginning of this page.

Reviewer 4: I think an active tense is better.

```
You can use one of the following methods to install the [Kubeflow Platform](/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform).
When deployed as a platform, Kubeflow provides a comprehensive set of tools for the entire ML lifecycle. 
```

Which is more similar to what you originally proposed anyway, just with a link to the introduction page.

Author: We have to say that all Standalone Kubeflow Components are included in the Kubeflow Platform.

Reviewer 4: @andreyvelich I think that is implied. Also, its explicitly said in the `/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform` link if the user clicks.

The key "selling point" of the platform is the `When deployed as a platform, Kubeflow provides a comprehensive set of tools for the entire ML lifecycle.`.

Talking about `standalone components` in this heading detracts from this idea of using Kubeflow as a platform, I get that your interest is in Kubeflow not being a platform, but many users want a platform, and that's why we have two sections on this page.

Author: Ok, can you rephrase this message to explain that all Standalone Kubeflow Components will be included into Kubeflow Platform ?

> You can use one of the following methods to install [Kubeflow Platform](/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform)
> to get full suite of standalone Kubeflow components bundled together with additional tools.

Reviewer 4: The sentence had a few typos, and I dont think we need to say "standalone" as "kubeflow components" is more accurate in this case:

```suggestion
You can use one of the following methods to install the [Kubeflow Platform](/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform)
and get the full suite of Kubeflow components bundled together with additional tools.
```

+++

This guide describes how to install Kubeflow standalone components or Kubeflow Platform using package

> distributions or raw manifests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
distributions or Kustomize manifests.
```

+++

This guide describes how to install Kubeflow standalone components or Kubeflow Platform using package
distributions or raw manifests.

Read [the introduction guide](/docs/started/introduction) to understand what are Kubeflow

> standalone components and what is Kubeflow Platform.

Reviewer 4: This is resolved.

You can install Kubeflow using one of these methods:

- [**Install Kubeflow Components Standalone**](#install-kubeflow-components-standalone)

- Install Kubeflow Platform
  - [**From Packaged Distributions**](#from-packaged-distributions)

>   - [**From Raw Manifests**](#from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

Author: I am fine with that, but we should explicitly call out that these are the Kubeflow Standalone Components.
Why you don't like this ?
```
## Installing Kubeflow

You can install Kubeflow using one of these methods:

- [**Install Kubeflow Components Standalone**](#install-kubeflow-components-standalone)
- [**Install Kubeflow Platform**](#install-kubeflow-platform)
```

>   - [**From Raw Manifests**](#from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

Reviewer 4: My reasons for the proposal I made are:

 - I think "installation methods" heading is more helpful to the user's understanding
 - Removing the word "Install" from the links and headers makes the page much easier to skim, without removing anything.
- directly linking to the "introduction" page section about what each option is will help users understand the differences without magically expecting them to browse to that page

Regarding if we should use "Kubeflow Standalone Components" or "Standalone Components" I believe the second one is easier to read, but its less important than the other points.

>   - [**From Raw Manifests**](#from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

Author: >Removing the word "Install" from the links and headers makes the page much easier to skim, without removing anything.

If you want to remove word install from the headers, we should make these headers as sub-headers under Installing Methods:

## Installing Methods
### Kubeflow Components Standalone
### Kubeflow Platform

Thoughts @StefanoFioravanzo @juliusvonkohout @kubeflow/kubeflow-steering-committee ?

>   - [**From Raw Manifests**](#from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

Reviewer 4: I think the page is easier to read when we don't end up with H4 headers for `Packaged Distributions` (which is required if we use H3 for `Kubeflow Platform`).

E.g. we should have:

```md
## Installation Methods
## Kubeflow Components Standalone
## Kubeflow Platform
### Packaged Distributions
### Raw Manifests
```

I don't think any semantic meaning is lost, its just an improvement to formatting, the whole page is called "Installing Kubeflow", lol.

>   - [**From Raw Manifests**](#from-raw-manifests) <sup>(advanced users)</sup>

Author: Ok, let's do this.

> ## Install Kubeflow Components Standalone

Reviewer 4: This is resolved.

Some components in the [Kubeflow ecosystem](/docs/started/architecture/#conceptual-overview) may be
deployed as standalone services, without the need to install the full platform. You might integrate
these services as part of your existing AI/ML platform or use them independently.

This is a quick and easier method to get started with Kubeflow ecosystem since those components usually

> don't require additional management tools used in a Kubeflow Platform.

Author: I've already asked community, distribution, users to comment on this PR if they have concerns with word: easier.
We can wait by end of this week for other objections.

As @jbottum said on the community call it is obvious that starting with single component will be easier than install all Kubeflow Platform.

> don't require additional management tools used in a Kubeflow Platform.

Reviewer 4: We can't know what is "easier" for any particular user as this is subjective and depends on what they are trying to do.

@rareddy @kimwnasptd can you please clarify what the positions of Red Hat and Canonical are here? (Or any other distributions)

---

The specific wording is not important, and it's much less controversial if we just say standalone components are "a quick way to get started with Kubeflow" (note, this is not "quicker").

@andreyvelich I hope you understand why I am opposed to making making superlative statements, and prefer we stick to factual ones.

Although I doubt we will get many responses here because this PR has SOOO much activity on it, and this comment thread will get lost.

lists their associated GitHub repository and
corresponding [ML lifecycle stage](/docs/started/architecture/#kubeflow-components-in-the-ml-lifecycle).

<div class="table-responsive distributions-table">
  <table class="table table-bordered">
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Component</th>
        <th>ML Lifecycle Stage</th>
        <th>Source Code</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="/docs/components/katib/installation/#installing-katib">
            Kubeflow Katib
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Optimization and AutoML
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/katib">
            <code>kubeflow/katib</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
         <a href="https://kserve.github.io/website/master/admin/serverless/serverless">
            KServe
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Serving
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kserve/kserve">
            <code>kserve/kserve</code>
          </a>
        </td>

>       </tr>

Author: We discussed it several times before: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3724#discussion_r1600743256.
We want to keep KServe in the components section, and keep the order in alphabetical order.

>       </tr>

Author: That's right, but I keep the order by the component name (e.g. Katib -> KServe -> Model Registry).
What do others think @kubeflow/kubeflow-steering-committee @StefanoFioravanzo @juliusvonkohout ?

>       </tr>

Reviewer 4: Aside from the readability issue, if we don't give priority to first-party Kubeflow apps, what are we doing?

>       </tr>

Reviewer: as we said multiple times, we are treating KServe in a special way due to history and current positioning of the two projects together. Feast has nothing to do with this list. I agree on keeping alphabetical sort based on component name.

>       </tr>

Author: @StefanoFioravanzo Is right.

>       </tr>

Reviewer 4: My argument is not about removing KServe, but to make the table easier to read.

I am not making any statements about KServe (I am even fine with it being at the top), it's just harder to read with it in the middle, purely from a formatting perspective.

## Option 1 - in the middle

![Screenshot 2024-05-22 at 13 31 05](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/assets/5735406/6d0c3ecc-2dab-487b-bcb9-8ac9f0e79153)

## Option 2 - at the bottom

![Screenshot 2024-05-22 at 13 31 53](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/assets/5735406/73e04bf7-0077-47b6-8399-9b2eb142d94b)

## Option 3 - at the top

![Screenshot 2024-05-22 at 13 43 54](https://github.com/kubeflow/website/assets/5735406/9b31c387-a96e-4de2-a1cc-28d62db8cb98)

>       </tr>

Author: I will move it to the top.

>       </tr>

Reviewer 4: Consider this resolved then.

        <td>
          ML Workflows and Schedules
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/pipelines">
            <code>kubeflow/pipelines</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator/tree/master?tab=readme-ov-file#installation">
            Kubeflow Spark Operator
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Data Preparation
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/spark-operator">
            <code>kubeflow/spark-operator</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <a href="/docs/components/training/installation/#installing-training-operator">
            Kubeflow Training Operator
          </a>
        </td>
        <td>
          Model Training and Fine-Tuning
        </td>
        <td>
          <a href="https://github.com/kubeflow/training-operator">
            <code>kubeflow/training-operator</code>
          </a>
        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
  </table>
</div>

**Note**. Currently, Kubeflow Notebooks can't be deployed as a standalone application, but Notebooks

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Author: @thesuperzapper Are you planning to support standalone mode for Kubeflow Notebooks in the future ?

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Reviewer 4: @kimwnasptd can confirm this.

At this stage, even Notebooks 2.0 will require the Profile controller and Istio to be used, so its a "Kubeflow Platform only" component for now and the foreseeable future.

> WG is working on that as part of [this issue](https://github.com/kubeflow/kubeflow/issues/7549).

Reviewer 4: This is resolved.

## Install Kubeflow Platform

You can use one of the following methods to install Kubeflow Platform to get full suite of Kubeflow

> components bundled together with additional integration and management tools.

Author: We already explained it in the Introduction section: https://deploy-preview-3724--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/started/introduction/#what-is-kubeflow-platform-.

> components bundled together with additional integration and management tools.

Author: >I strongly believe we need to have a descriptive introduction under this heading

Why we can't just redirect users to the introduction section and then to the components installation section if they want to understand the differences ?

>we would need to include it under the standalone components section.

We are planing to add the Kubeflow Notebooks to the Kubeflow Component Standalone table, once it supports it.
I can modify this **Note** if @kubeflow/wg-notebooks-leads doesn't like it:
```
Note. Currently, Kubeflow Notebooks can’t be deployed as a standalone application,
but Notebooks WG is working on that as part of this issue.
```

+++

> Kubeflow is the ecosystem of various applications created to address each stage in the AI/ML lifecycle,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Kubeflow is an ecosystem of various applications created to address each stage in the AI/ML lifecycle,
```

or deploy Kubeflow as an end-to-end AI/ML platform. Anywhere you are running Kubernetes,
you should be able to run Kubeflow.

There are a few ways to install Kubeflow:

- [**Install Kubeflow Components Standalone**](#install-kubeflow-components-standalone)
- [**Install Kubeflow Platform from Raw Manifests**](#install-kubeflow-platform-from-raw-manifests)
- [**Install Kubeflow Platform from Packaged Distributions**](#install-kubeflow-platform-from-packages-distributions)

## Install Kubeflow Components Standalone

Kubeflow components can be deployed as standalone applications. You can integrate those components
to your existing AI/ML platform. For example, for Model Training you can install Training Operator
or for Model Serving you can install KServe.

Follow the appropriate guides to install required Kubeflow components in standalone mode:

- Install [Kubeflow Pipelines](/docs/components/pipelines/v2/installation/quickstart/)
- Install [Kubeflow Training Operator](/docs/components/training/installation/#installing-training-operator)
- Install [Kubeflow MPI Operator](/docs/components/training/user-guides/mpi/#installation)

> - Install [Kubeflow Katib] (TODO: Add link after #3723)

Reviewer 6: I'm not sure about adding "TODO" here. Maybe "Not yet available", or something like that would be better. Also, add to https://github.com/kubeflow/katib/issues/2314 a task to update the link here.

Author: I want to merge this PR after Katib and Model registry docs will be updated: https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3723, https://github.com/kubeflow/website/pull/3698.
So I can add the appropriate links here.

- Install [KServe](https://kserve.github.io/website/0.10/admin/serverless/serverless/)

> - Install Kubeflow Model Registry (TODO: Add link after #3698)

Reviewer 6: Same as above, but using the respective Model Registry issue.

  </table>
</div>

> ### Install Kubeflow Platform from Raw Manifests

Author: We might want to explicit that this installation is for Kubeflow Platform to link it with introduction explanation.

The raw Kubeflow Manifests are aggregated by the
Manifests Working Group and are intended to be used as the **base of packaged distributions**.

Kubeflow Manifests contain all Kubeflow Components, Kubeflow Central Dashboard, and other Kubeflow
applications which makes **Kubeflow Platform**. This installation is helpful when you want to try

> out the end-to-end Kubeflow Platform capabilities.

Author: We didn't tell that Raw Manifests installation is the easiest method. Oppositely, we said that Packaged Distribution is the simplified method to deploy Kubeflow Platform: https://deploy-preview-3724--competent-brattain-de2d6d.netlify.app/docs/started/installing-kubeflow/#install-kubeflow-platform-from-packaged-distributions.

I am fine to make these wording changes if @kubeflow/wg-manifests-leads agreed on that.

> out the end-to-end Kubeflow Platform capabilities.

Reviewer 2: No those 4 lines are very important and should stay.

> out the end-to-end Kubeflow Platform capabilities.

Reviewer 2: Also the two additional lines shall not be added in my opinion.

  </table>
</div>

### Kubeflow Manifests

The Kubeflow Manifests are aggregated by the Manifests Working Group and are intended to be
used as the **base of packaged distributions**.

Kubeflow Manifests contain all Kubeflow Components, Kubeflow Central Dashboard, and other Kubeflow

> applications which makes **Kubeflow Platform**. This installation is helpful when you want to try

Reviewer 4: Its not valid to use "makes" in this context: 

```suggestion
applications that comprise the **Kubeflow Platform**. This installation is helpful when you want to try
```

  </table>
</div>

> ### Raw Manifests

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Kustomize Manifests
```

> The raw Kubeflow Manifests are aggregated by the Manifests Working Group and are intended to be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Kustomize Kubeflow Manifests are aggregated by the Manifests Working Group and are intended to be
```

Reviewer 3: I am concerned about using the Raw Manifest term.   I dont believe that we use it in the Manifest docs.   Maybe just Manifests ?

Reviewer 4: The reason we chose "raw manifests" historically is because it highlights that they are not ready for production out of the box, and are not the "official" way to deploy Kubeflow (as required by the [Manifests WG charter](https://github.com/kubeflow/community/blob/master/wg-manifests/charter.md)).

The core purpose of the manifests has always been to enable the creation of distributions that are more targeted to specific environments/users.

Obviously, some advanced users have chosen to effectively make "bespoke" distributions for their company, and that's fine but it's important for users to not think that the manifest are an "out of the box" experience.

Reviewer 2: I do not see how the name "Kustomize manifests" (since they are actually kustomize manifests) changes that. I did not add "official way to install" or something similar.

Reviewer 4: @juliusvonkohout I really think we should discuss this in a separate PR, where we can make a decision on that branding specifically.

The website currently calls them "raw manifests" and adding more changes to this PR will only make it take longer to merge.

Reviewer 7: I don't think we should call it "kustomize manifests" since that's implementation detail. ICYMI, kustomize now ships with kubectl as a sub-command. 

I don't think this is blocking the PR. Maybe a separate discussion.

Author: Can we just call them Kubeflow Manifests @juliusvonkohout @terrytangyuan @jbottum @thesuperzapper ?
E.g.
```
The Kubeflow Manifests are aggregated by the Manifests Working Group and are intended to be used as the
base of packaged distributions.
```

Reviewer 7: SGTM

Reviewer 4: I am more ok with using `Kubeflow Manifests`, but we should do that change in a separate PR, to allow others to discuss.

This PR is already doing a lot, and is very hard to review for stakeholders.

Reviewer 4: @andreyvelich @terrytangyuan I am more ok with using `Kubeflow Manifests`, but we should do that change in a separate PR, to allow others to discuss.

This PR is already doing a lot, and is very hard to review for stakeholders.

Author: From my point of view, the final decision will be up to the Manifest WG since they maintain this section.
I don't think renaming Raw Manifests to the Kubeflow Manifests is a big deal, tbh, but I am happy to hear other community members objections.

used as the **base of packaged distributions**.

Kubeflow Manifests contain all Kubeflow Components, Kubeflow Central Dashboard, and other Kubeflow
applications which makes **Kubeflow Platform**. This installation is helpful when you want to try
out the end-to-end Kubeflow Platform capabilities.

Users may choose to install the manifests for a specific Kubeflow version by following the
instructions in the `README` of the [`kubeflow/manifests`](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests) repository.

> - [**Kubeflow 1.8:**](/docs/releases/kubeflow-1.8/)

Reviewer 2: ```
- [**Kubeflow 1.8:**](/docs/releases/kubeflow-1.8/)
  - [`v1.8-branch`](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/v1.8-branch#installation) <sup>(development branch)</sup>
  - [`v1.8.0`](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/v1.8.0#installation)
- [**Kubeflow 1.9:**](/docs/releases/kubeflow-1.9/)
  - [`v1.9-branch`](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/v1.9-branch#installation) <sup>(development branch)</sup>
  - [`v1.9.0`](https://github.com/kubeflow/manifests/tree/v1.9.0#installation)
```

I think we should either reference the master or 1.9 branch, but 1.7 is not supported anymore.

Author: @juliusvonkohout Can we update it once we release Kubeflow 1.9 ?

Reviewer 4: We should not link to unreleased versions.

{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
Kubeflow is a complex system with many components and dependencies.
Using the Kubeflow manifests requires a deep understanding of Kubernetes, Istio, and Kubeflow itself.

When using the Kubeflow manifests, the community is not able to provide support for environment-specific issues or custom configurations.

> If you need support, please consider using a [packaged distribution](#packaged-distributions-of-kubeflow).

Reviewer 4: We renamed this heading, so the link needs to be updated:

```suggestion
If you need support, please consider using a [packaged distribution](#packaged-distributions).
```

Nevertheless, we welcome contributions and bug reports very much.
{{% /alert %}}

> <a id="next-steps"></a>

Reviewer 2: ```
{{% alert title="Warning" color="warning" %}}
Kubeflow is a complex system with many components and dependencies.
Using the Kustomize manifests requires some understanding of Kubernetes, Istio, and Kubeflow itself.
The Kubeflow community support for Kustomize manifests is best-effort for environment-specific issues or custom configurations.
Nevertheless, we welcome contributions and bug reports very much.
{{% /alert %}}
```

@andreyvelich i was not able to make a direct code suggestion here so I am just pasting the full alert.
